When I was 21 years old, I was sent to prison in the Nunsan Military Training Center
because I refused to serve in the military.
The soldier working in the military prison came and started to beat me, and he beat me
relentlessly.
It was late December 1975.
More of the brothers were put into standing solitary confinement cells, called doggochang.
It literally feels like you're in a coffin.
The outside temperature dropped to minus 13 degrees Celsius, and cold air seeped out from
the wet walls.
The brothers couldn't lay down to sleep, so they had to crouch.
And I could hear them groaning all night.
I extended my hand through the iron bars to the brother in the cell next to mine, and
he did the same.
We held hands and encouraged each other to stay strong.
My health condition wasn't really good while serving my prison sentence.
I weighed about 47 kg, and without my family support, I was mentally and physically weak.
After these extremely difficult circumstances, there were times I wasn't able to eat at
all.
During those times, the brothers provided me with porridge which was easy to digest, warm
clothing, and a sleeping bag for the winter.
I could really feel their love.
Having been to prison three times, I truly feel that Jehovah showed interest in me, and
took care of me just as he promised in first Peter 5.7.
He especially supported me through my brothers when I was facing difficulties.
A day in the prison started with eating breakfast and then moving 300 bricks.
After lunch, we would have to carry another 300 bricks.
Because I usually finished my work early, I had a 20 minute break before going back in.
However, this brother named Park Byung-Man, who was much stronger and bigger than I was,
carried bricks all day long.
I found out later that Park Byung-Man was carrying chess on Q's share of bricks because of his
frail health.
This kind of brotherly love really moved me to start studying the Bible.
I got baptized a year later in April of 1977 in the An Young Prison.
After getting baptized, my mother passed away, and two months before being released, my
father passed away as well.
So that time was especially difficult for me.
But the brothers encouraged me with their warm words and kind gestures.
Their encouragement really touched me and helped me to endure until I was released.
One time, I had a severe stomach ache.
The symptoms were not getting any better with the medication I was given, so I was having
a very difficult time.
One day, we would serve some vegetables as a side dish.
One brother, he crushed and squeezed the vegetables to make juice for me.
He cared for me that way for several days.
I really would like to see that self-sacrificing and loving brother once again.
At the time, none of our publications other than the Bible were allowed into the prison.
Of course, that includes our songbook.
The brothers memorized the lyrics from the songbook, and it would write them down.
Also, there were some songs that were sung at the regional convention.
Songs like...
Oh.
We sang them silently together, even in this isolated place.
It was a great source of encouragement to share the love among our fellow brothers.
I remember this encouraging scripture from 1 Corinthians 10 verse 13.
It says that Jehovah does not let us be tempted beyond what we can bear and will make the
way out so we may endure it.
Although there were many challenges, I was convinced that Jehovah would always make a way out
through our fellow brothers.
Even though 40 years have passed, when we look back at those days, the memories are still
fresh and we are moved to tears at times.
So to make a meaningful trip out of our 40 years of friendship, all the friends who went
through the same trials decided to visit the headquarters in the United States together.
It's really refreshing to be here with everyone again today.
It feels like I'm taking a field trip.
I was especially moved to tears when I saw our old prison uniforms.
There in the museum, at World Headquarters, displayed in the neutrality section.
While on the tour, the brothers sat and laid down on the floor inside the Dokkochang.
And we were able to reflect on the times we spent together in prison.
Our gratitude to Jehovah for giving us such loyal friends was renewed.